This is a historical document related to my selection of fonts.
It is not very relevant now that I have SpartanTT, but is retained to avoid
duplication of research for later.


Notes on choice of font for timetables.
----
Arrows.

We are currently using Noto Sans Symbols for arrows, via the fallback method.
We should install arrows into our own font. FIXME!


----    
Font size.

We want a very small font to fit a lot on the printed page.  It is difficult to find a readable one.
    
Amtrak's old timetables were basically 6 pt, or maybe even smaller.
Note: 6pt is 8px.

Spartan (from Google) is readable at 6pt.  Practically nothing else is.
    
6pt may be unnecessarily grim for screen use, or even print use, perhaps.
    
The WAVE accessibility checker complains about sizes less than 13.75 px / 10.35pt
10.35pt is the minimum for DejaVu Sans (given that smaller text is at 80%)
10.35pt is the minimum for Roboto (given that smaller text is at 80%)

With regard to the choice of 6pt / 8px:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agate_(typography)
"An agate (US) or ruby (UK) is a unit of typographical measure. 
It is 5.5 typographical points, or about 1⁄13 inch (1.94 mm). 
It can refer either to the height of a line of type or to a font that is 5.5 points.
An agate font is commonly used to display statistical data or legal notices in newspapers.
It is considered to be the smallest point size that can be printed on newsprint and remain legible."

So we could probably go down to 5.5pt.

-----

Be aware: Most PDF viewers display PDFs at the wrong size.
Okular, for instance, is only "correct" size if displayed at 90%!
Screen fonts are probably OK for print as well.

----
I like the look of DejaVu Sans.  It seems the most reliable.  But it is not good when tiny.

Other fonts to consider include Quicksand (pretty, art-decoish)
and Liberation Sans (good, but uglier I think)
Roboto is clean and good and small sizes; narrower than Déjà vu.
B612 is also worth considering

Spartan (from Google) appears to be based on the classic Spartan Classified font, possibly
good for small sizes?  League Spartan is slighly heavier.

Spartan (from Google) is better than League Spartan.  But use Medium, not Regular

Spartan (from Google) has highly compressed verticals: more lines per page.
Slightly *wider* than other fonts: fewer columns per page.

Here's the only problem: Spartan has non-tabular numbers!

Raleway is fairly clean, but has non-tabular nums.  Second best so far.


Tabular number fonts include DejaVu, Open Sans, Roboto, 
Roboto Condensed (unreadable), Titillium Web (too tall vertically and unreadable),
Varela Round (no bold).

National Park is elegant, non-tabular, and not good at small sizes at all.  :-(

Cantarell is supposed to be readable at small sizes on mobile phones.  It's... OK, but not good.
However, it DOES have tabular numerals.  Which is a big point in its favor.  It has tall lines though.

----
"cursive" backup font-family tells us "Font didn't load".  Not a real backup family.  Used for debugging. FIXME.
